---
layout: post
title: Ethiopia's fascinating history
date: 2020-08-13 08:00:20 +0800
description: 
img: # Add image post (optional)
fig-caption: # Add figcaption (optional)
tags: []
---

Ethiopia has a lot of fascinating pieces of its history. It is one of the few non-European nations to decisively defeat a European army. It has a delicious cuisine that is reminiscent of Indian food despite building an agriculture around teff - a grain that is fairly rare in other parts of the world. Ethiopia was long a Christian nation, one of the oldest Christian nations out there, with some (dubious) claim to the king being a descendant of Solomon. Others believe that the king of Ethiopia is the second coming of Jesus and the leader of all black people, but that's kind of off topic.

The parts that are currently captivating me about Ethiopia are all about chatting - coffee, beer and language.

An urheimat is the ancestral drawing point from which many languages came. Arabic and Hebrew are both Afro-Asiatic languages, and this language group finds its urheimat in...Ethiopia.

The highlands, the fertile plains and weather of Ethiopia lend itself well to a robust population. It is not surprising that humans ventured forth from here. In fact, Hebrew and Arabic are closer to each other than many of the Ethiopian languages are to each other.

The oldest recipe we have for beer comes from Ethiopia.

The highlands once again feature in our chat - coffee was a bean originally eaten by goats, as explained by the Oatmeal.

Even before we get into biblical times, Ethiopia has a fascinating history (I guess technically some of that is pre-history).
